docs: create documentation for Delivery Monitoring Protocol (#2)
crewaii/protocol: doc/delivery-monitoring-protocol.md

# DMP / Delivery Monitoring Protocol

## TERMS
- `FRAGMENT`: the result of data partitioning.

> - `TRANSPORT`: mechanism of fragmented data interchange that guarantees in-order delivery (examples: [TCP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc793)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `TRANSPORT`: mechanism of fragmented data interchange that guarantees in-order delivering (examples: [TCP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc793)).
```

## PROBLEM

>   There are [`TRANSPORT`](#terms)s that can fall and in this case, does not provide information on which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s were delivered. This creates a problem after restoring the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms): which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s should be resend?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  There are [`TRANSPORT`](#terms)s that can fall and in this case, does not provide information on which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s were delivered. This creates a problem after restoring the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms): which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s should be resended?
```

>   There are [`TRANSPORT`](#terms)s that can fall and in this case, does not provide information on which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s were delivered. This creates a problem after restoring the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms): which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s should be re-send?

Reviewer: I realize, that we separate this protocol from such things as connection, but FWIW `restoring the TRANSPORT` sounds a little bit strange, don't you think so?

Author: after returning the ability to transfer fragments?

Reviewer: @bugagashenkj yes, sounds better

## INTRODUCTION

>   [`DMP`](#dmp--delivery-monitoring-protocol) have to be used with the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) for tracking [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) delivery and, in case of the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) failure, detecting undelivered [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. It solves [`PROBLEM`](#problem), and takes care of the efficient use of your memory and the time required for recovery. The protocol is symmetric for the sending and receiving side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [`DMP`](#dmp--delivery-monitoring-protocol) has to be used with the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) for tracking [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) delivery and, in case of the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) failure, detecting undelivered ones. It solves the [`PROBLEM`](#problem), and takes care of the efficient use of your memory and the time required for recovery. The protocol is symmetric for the sending and receiving side.
```

## PROTOCOL DESCRIPTION
### SPECIAL FRAGMENTS

> - `ACK`: does not contain any specified information (see: [`SENDING ACK`](#sending-ack-recommendation)), have to be send only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ACK`: does not contain any specific information (see: [`SENDING ACK`](#sending-ack-recommendation)), have to be send only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side.
```

> - `ACK`: does not contain any specified information (see: [`SENDING ACK`](#sending-ack-recommendation)), have to be send only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ACK`: does not contain any specified information (see: [`SENDING ACK`](#sending-ack-recommendation)), has to be sent only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side.
```

> - `SYN`: contains [`PTR`](#data-structures) and [`CNT`](#data-structures), and have to be sent primarily after [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) restoration from both sides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SYN`: contains [`PTR`](#data-structures) and [`CNT`](#data-structures), and has to be sent primarily after [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) restoration from both sides.
```

  
### DATA STRUCTURES

> - `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two 'storages' of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (You should understand that the 'storage' is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the algorithm requires.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two 'storages' of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (You should understand that the 'storage' is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the protocol requires.)
```

> - `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two 'storages' of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (You should understand that the 'storage' is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the algorithm requires.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two 'storages' of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (The 'storage' is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the algorithm requires.)
```
This sounds more polite, as for me

> - `PTR`: a boolean pointer to which storage we should write to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PTR`: a boolean pointer to the storage, to which we should write.
```
This might sound a little bit clearer

- `FRS`: a boolean field, true for the one who sends an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) first.

> - `CNT`: the unsigned integer counter of the received data [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CNT`: an unsigned integer counter of the received data [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s.
```

### PROTOCOL STAGES
#### PREPARATION

>   Before the start of the protocol you have to initialize the necessary data structures with default values (empty storages([`S[0]`](#data-structures), [`S[1]`](#data-structures)), [`PTR`](#data-structures)`= 0`, [`CNT`](#data-structures)`= 0`), decide which side sends an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) first and depending on this, initialize the value of the [`FRS`](#data-structures): true if the side sends the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) first, false otherwise. After it you can start sending [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s by writing each [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) on the sender's side, and send the first [`ACK`](#special-fragments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Before the start of the protocol both sides have to initialize the necessary data structures with default values (empty storages([`S[0]`](#data-structures), [`S[1]`](#data-structures)), [`PTR`](#data-structures)`= 0`, [`CNT`](#data-structures)`= 0`), decide which side sends an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) first and depending on this, initialize the value of the [`FRS`](#data-structures): true if the side sends the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) first, false otherwise. After it they can start sending [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s by writing each [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) on the sender's side, and send the first [`ACK`](#special-fragments).
```

#### NORMAL MODE

>   When you send [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), you have to write a [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) on the sender's side. When you get [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) from the other side, you have to increment your [`CNT`](#data-structures). When you get [`ACK`](#special-fragments) you have to set [`CNT`](#data-structures)`= 0`, clear [`S[!PTR]`](#data-structures) and then send the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) back and at the same time negate the [`PTR`](#data-structures).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When sending side sends [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to write a [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures). When receiver side gets [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to increment its [`CNT`](#data-structures). When anyone gets [`ACK`](#special-fragments) it has to set [`CNT`](#data-structures)`= 0`, clear [`S[!PTR]`](#data-structures) and then send the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) back and at the same time negate the [`PTR`](#data-structures).
```

#### RESTORE MODE

>   If the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) has failed, after its restoration both sides have to sent [`SYN`](#special-fragments). Then you must count the value of ([`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub> ⊕ [`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>remote</sub> ⊕ [`FRS`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub>). If this value is true, [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) starting from remote [`CNT`](#data-structures), else [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[!PTR]`](#data-structures) starting from [`CNT`](#data-structures)<sub>remote</sub> and all [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) were not delivered. If you want to restore sending [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, you can start sending new [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s as soon as you re-send all of the undelivered [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from your side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) has failed, after its restoration both sides have to sent [`SYN`](#special-fragments). Then each side must count the value of ([`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub> ⊕ [`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>remote</sub> ⊕ [`FRS`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub>). If this value is true, [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) starting from remote [`CNT`](#data-structures), else [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[!PTR]`](#data-structures) starting from [`CNT`](#data-structures)<sub>remote</sub> and all [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s from [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures) were not delivered. If side wants to restore sending [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, it can start sending new [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s as soon as it has resended all of its undelivered [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s.
```

### SENDING [`ACK`](#data-structures) (recommendation)

>   An [`ACK`](#special-fragments) have to be send only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side. This is the only rule about when you should send an [`ACK`](#special-fragments). In turn, we want to offer our recommendation on this issue. In most [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) implementations: it will be critical for you how much memory is occupied by [`S[0]`](#data-structures), [`S[1]`](#data-structures), [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s will be sent with a different time interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  An [`ACK`](#special-fragments) have to be send only once after receiving an [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side. This is the only rule about when the side should send an [`ACK`](#special-fragments). In turn, we want to offer our recommendation on this issue. In most [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) implementations: it will be critical for you how much memory is occupied by [`S[0]`](#data-structures), [`S[1]`](#data-structures), [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s will be sent with a different time interval.
```

- `COUNTER`: an unsigned integer counter of the received data [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s.

### PROTOCOL STAGES
#### PREPARATION
  Before the start of the transferring [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s both sides have to initialize the necessary data structures with default values (empty storages([`STORAGE[0]`](#data-structures), [`STORAGE[1]`](#data-structures)), [`LOCAL_STORAGE_PTR`](#data-structures)`= 0`, [`REMOTE_STORAGE_PTR`](#data-structures)`= 0`, [`COUNTER`](#data-structures)`= 0`).

#### NORMAL MODE
  When side sends [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to write a [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`STORAGE[LOCAL_STORAGE_PTR]`](#data-structures). When receiver side gets [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to increment [`COUNTER`](#data-structures). When anyone gets [`ACK`](#special-fragments) it has to set [`COUNTER`](#data-structures)`= 0` and at the same time negate the [`REMOTE_STORAGE_PTR`](#data-structures), and then send the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) back and at the same time negate the [`LOCAL_STORAGE_PTR`](#data-structures) and clear [`STORAGE[LOCAL_STORAGE_PTR]`](#data-structures).

| Transition | State changes |
|:-------------:|:----------------:|

> | send [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) | add a [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`STORAGE[LOCAL_STORAGE_PTR]`](#data-structures) |

Reviewer: It seems more grammatically correct to write actions in one tense, so that verbs should be in Past Simple (`sent` and `received`) or Present Simple  (`send` and `receive`) at one time.

# DMP / Delivery Monitoring Protocol

## TERMS
- `FRAGMENT`: the result of data partitioning.
- `TRANSPORT`: mechanism of fragmented data interchange that guarantees in-order delivering (examples: [TCP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc793)).

## PROBLEM
  There are [`TRANSPORT`](#terms)s that can fall and in this case, does not provide information about [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s were delivered. This creates a problem after returning the ability to transfer fragments: which [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s should be resended?

## INTRODUCTION
  [`DMP`](#dmp--delivery-monitoring-protocol) has to be used with the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) for tracking [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) delivery and, in case of the [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) failure, detecting undelivered [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. It solves [`PROBLEM`](#problem), and takes care of the efficient use of memory and the time required for recovery. The protocol is symmetric for the sending and receiving side.

## PROTOCOL DESCRIPTION
### SPECIAL FRAGMENTS

> - `ACK`: does not contain any information, has to be sent in response to [`ACK`](#special-fragments) from the other side.

Reviewer 3: Probably it's better to clarify when the first side should send it

Author: You're right. This is missing. But the problem is that it is not included in the protocol specification. ACKs send regardless of sending fragments and the only rule you have to send ACK after receiving ACK and before the restoration.

Author: This means that the first time ACK can be sent at any time from the beginning of the transfer of fragments and before the start of the restoration.

Reviewer 3: I think this clarification has to included here to make it clear for the reader

- `SYN`: contains [`PTR`](#data-structures) and [`CNT`](#data-structures), and has to be sent primarily after [`TRANSPORT`](#terms) restoration from both sides.
  
### DATA STRUCTURES

> - `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two "storages" of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (The "storage" is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the protocol requires.)

Reviewer 3: What does it mean for "storage" to be conditional? Is "abstract" a better word here?

> - `S[0]`, `S[1]`: two "storages" of sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s. (The "storage" is only conditional. The main thing is that you should have access to the already sent [`FRAGMENT`](#terms)s, divided into two parts as the protocol requires.)

Reviewer 3: The main ~~thing~~ goal is ~~that you should~~ to have access to the already sent fragments

Author: Do not quite understand. For this we create "storages".

Reviewer 3: This is just grammatical correction :-)

#### NORMAL MODE
  When side sends [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to write a [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) to the [`S[PTR]`](#data-structures). When receiver side gets [`FRAGMENT`](#terms), it has to increment [`CNT`](#data-structures). When anyone gets [`ACK`](#special-fragments) it has to set [`CNT`](#data-structures)`= 0`, clear [`S[!PTR]`](#data-structures) and then send the [`ACK`](#special-fragments) back and at the same time negate the [`PTR`](#data-structures).

| N step | Transition | N + 1 step |
|:--------------:|:-------------:|:----------------:|
| [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) | send [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) | [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) |
| [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) | recieved [`FRAGMENT`](#terms) | [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) + 1 |
| [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) | send [`ACK`](#special-fragments) | [`!PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) |
| [`PTR`](#data-structures), [`CNT`](#data-structures) | recieved [`ACK`](#special-fragments) | [`PTR`](#data-structures), `0` |

> ![dmp_normal_mode_image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31672093/57922020-7471d700-78a7-11e9-8ea8-a86cb0c6485b.gif)

Reviewer 3: The animation is awesome but I can't follow all changes during one frame time. Maybe it's better to make it a bit slower or/and include a link to the picture with all frames merged in the one long picture so slowpokes like me won't frustrated :)

> #### RESTORE MODE

Reviewer 3: Is it possible for `Transport` to die before any `ACK` will be sent?
F1-> (not delivered) 
<-F1 (not delivered)
---TRANSPORT DIED--
If the answer is yes then [`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub> ⊕ [`PTR`](#data-structures)<sub>remote</sub> ⊕ [`FRS`](#data-structures)<sub>local</sub> is 1 for sender and 0 for receiver but should be 0 for both as far I understand

Author: The rule is: if you received ACK, you must send ACK (even if the transport has already fallen). In the case of the first posting the same, you must send ACK, even if the transport has fallen.

Reviewer 3: So do I understand correctly that you must have unresponded ACK to start restoration? And so only sender side can initiate the restoration process?

Author: ACK is sent from both sides. The fact of the fall of the connection can state both sides. I would not say that there is someone who initiated the recovery.

Reviewer 3: I mean such test
javascript```
{
  const a = new Restore(true);
  const b = new Restore(false);
  b.recieveData(a.sendData('c1'));
  a.recieveData(b.sendData('r1'));

  console.log(a.restore(b));
  console.log(b.restore(a));
}

```
